docs/configuration/route/rule_action.md, before:

---
icon: material/new-box
---

## Final actions

### route

```json
{
  "action": "route", // default
  "outbound": "",
 
  ... // route-options Fields
}
```

!!! note ""

    You can ignore the JSON Array [] tag when the content is only one item

`route` inherits the classic rule behavior of routing connection to the specified outbound.

#### outbound

==Required==

Tag of target outbound.

#### route-options Fields

See `route-options` fields below.

### route-options

```json
{
  "action": "route-options",
  "override_address": "",
  "override_port": 0,
  "network_strategy": "",
  "fallback_delay": "",
  "udp_disable_domain_unmapping": false,
  "udp_connect": false
}
```

`route-options` set options for routing.

#### override_address

Override the connection destination address.

#### override_port

Override the connection destination port.

#### network_strategy

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#network_strategy) for details.

Only take effect if outbound is direct without `outbound.bind_interface`,
`outbound.inet4_bind_address` and `outbound.inet6_bind_address` set.

#### network_type

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#network_type) for details.

#### fallback_network_type

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#fallback_network_type) for details.

#### fallback_delay

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#fallback_delay) for details.

#### udp_disable_domain_unmapping

If enabled, for UDP proxy requests addressed to a domain,
the original packet address will be sent in the response instead of the mapped domain.

This option is used for compatibility with clients that
do not support receiving UDP packets with domain addresses, such as Surge.

#### udp_connect

If enabled, attempts to connect UDP connection to the destination instead of listen.

### reject

```json
{
  "action": "reject",
  "method": "default", // default
  "no_drop": false
}
```

`reject` reject connections

The specified method is used for reject tun connections if `sniff` action has not been performed yet.

For non-tun connections and already established connections, will just be closed.

#### method

- `default`: Reply with TCP RST for TCP connections, and ICMP port unreachable for UDP packets.
- `drop`: Drop packets.

#### no_drop

If not enabled, `method` will be temporarily overwritten to `drop` after 50 triggers in 30s.

Not available when `method` is set to drop.

### hijack-dns

```json
{
  "action": "hijack-dns"
}
```

`hijack-dns` hijack DNS requests to the sing-box DNS module.

## Non-final actions

### sniff

```json
{
  "action": "sniff",
  "sniffer": [],
  "timeout": ""
}
```

`sniff` performs protocol sniffing on connections.

For deprecated `inbound.sniff` options, it is considered to `sniff()` performed before routing.

#### sniffer

Enabled sniffers.

All sniffers enabled by default.

Available protocol values an be found on in [Protocol Sniff](../sniff/)

#### timeout

Timeout for sniffing.

`300ms` is used by default.

### resolve

```json
{
  "action": "resolve",
  "strategy": "",
  "server": ""
}
```

`resolve` resolve request destination from domain to IP addresses.

#### strategy

DNS resolution strategy, available values are: `prefer_ipv4`, `prefer_ipv6`, `ipv4_only`, `ipv6_only`.

`dns.strategy` will be used by default.

#### server

Specifies DNS server tag to use instead of selecting through DNS routing.

Commit message:

Add UDP timeout route option

docs/configuration/route/rule_action.md, after:

---
icon: material/new-box
---

## Final actions

### route

```json
{
  "action": "route", // default
  "outbound": "",
 
  ... // route-options Fields
}
```

!!! note ""

    You can ignore the JSON Array [] tag when the content is only one item

`route` inherits the classic rule behavior of routing connection to the specified outbound.

#### outbound

==Required==

Tag of target outbound.

#### route-options Fields

See `route-options` fields below.

### route-options

```json
{
  "action": "route-options",
  "override_address": "",
  "override_port": 0,
  "network_strategy": "",
  "fallback_delay": "",
  "udp_disable_domain_unmapping": false,
  "udp_connect": false,
  "udp_timeout": ""
}
```

`route-options` set options for routing.

#### override_address

Override the connection destination address.

#### override_port

Override the connection destination port.

#### network_strategy

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#network_strategy) for details.

Only take effect if outbound is direct without `outbound.bind_interface`,
`outbound.inet4_bind_address` and `outbound.inet6_bind_address` set.

#### network_type

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#network_type) for details.

#### fallback_network_type

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#fallback_network_type) for details.

#### fallback_delay

See [Dial Fields](/configuration/shared/dial/#fallback_delay) for details.

#### udp_disable_domain_unmapping

If enabled, for UDP proxy requests addressed to a domain,
the original packet address will be sent in the response instead of the mapped domain.

This option is used for compatibility with clients that
do not support receiving UDP packets with domain addresses, such as Surge.

#### udp_connect

If enabled, attempts to connect UDP connection to the destination instead of listen.

#### udp_timeout

Timeout for UDP connections.

Setting a larger value than the UDP timeout in inbounds will have no effect.

Default value for protocol sniffed connections:

| Timeout | Protocol             |
|---------|----------------------|
| `10s`   | `dns`, `ntp`, `stun` |
| `30s`   | `quic`, `dtls`       |

If no protocol is sniffed, the following ports will be recognized as protocols by default:

| Port | Protocol |
|------|----------|
| 53   | `dns`    |
| 123  | `ntp`    |
| 443  | `quic`   |
| 3478 | `stun`   |

### reject

```json
{
  "action": "reject",
  "method": "default", // default
  "no_drop": false
}
```

`reject` reject connections

The specified method is used for reject tun connections if `sniff` action has not been performed yet.

For non-tun connections and already established connections, will just be closed.

#### method

- `default`: Reply with TCP RST for TCP connections, and ICMP port unreachable for UDP packets.
- `drop`: Drop packets.

#### no_drop

If not enabled, `method` will be temporarily overwritten to `drop` after 50 triggers in 30s.

Not available when `method` is set to drop.

### hijack-dns

```json
{
  "action": "hijack-dns"
}
```

`hijack-dns` hijack DNS requests to the sing-box DNS module.

## Non-final actions

### sniff

```json
{
  "action": "sniff",
  "sniffer": [],
  "timeout": ""
}
```

`sniff` performs protocol sniffing on connections.

For deprecated `inbound.sniff` options, it is considered to `sniff()` performed before routing.

#### sniffer

Enabled sniffers.

All sniffers enabled by default.

Available protocol values an be found on in [Protocol Sniff](../sniff/)

#### timeout

Timeout for sniffing.

`300ms` is used by default.

### resolve

```json
{
  "action": "resolve",
  "strategy": "",
  "server": ""
}
```

`resolve` resolve request destination from domain to IP addresses.

#### strategy

DNS resolution strategy, available values are: `prefer_ipv4`, `prefer_ipv6`, `ipv4_only`, `ipv6_only`.

`dns.strategy` will be used by default.

#### server

Specifies DNS server tag to use instead of selecting through DNS routing.
